when I joined Metallica in 83 and
started getting some pocket change one
of my first purchases was a EMG pickup
and that was the beginning when I put
that Gamgee pickup in there the
difference was considerable
so much that James kind of like whoa
what do you got going over there and it
wasn't long before he was using it EMG
pickups also and eventually they they
ended up in all my guitars I mean
literally all my guitars heavy empty
pickup city I ended up switching to the
the double on bucker when I started
playing ESP guitars and I specifically
said a lot EMG pickups in there and
nothing else
and when I got that guitar it just
sounded incredible
you look at James's set up the mice and
up in all the guitars we play on stage
all have EMG pickups and our entire
sound is based on you know the output of
the MGS and also very important as well
as you know being really really great
now pickups they're also pretty great
quiet pickups at the same time and you
know it's brilliant
the one great thing about EMG pickups is
that they have a lot of consistency if I
get like you know a guitar end up with a
guitar that has some some sort of pickup
in it I know that I can take the pickup
out put in EMGs and know what to expect
from that point on
you